$Id: README,v 0.9a 2010/03/19 19:52:15 lehman beta $

ABOUT

The biblatex package is a complete reimplementation of the
bibliographic facilities provided by LaTeX in conjunction with
BibTeX. It redesigns the way in which LaTeX interacts with BibTeX at
a fairly fundamental level. With biblatex, BibTeX is only used to
sort the bibliography and to generate labels. Instead of being
implemented in BibTeX's style files, the formatting of the
bibliography is entirely controlled by TeX macros. Good working
knowledge in LaTeX should be sufficient to design new bibliography
and citation styles. There is no need to learn BibTeX's postfix
stack language. Just like the bibliography styles, all citation
commands may be freely (re)defined.

Apart from the features unique to biblatex, the package also
incorporates core features of the following packages: babelbib,
backref, bibtopic, bibunits, chapterbib, cite, citeref, inlinebib,
mlbib, multibib, natbib, splitbib. There are also some conceptual
parallels to the amsrefs package. The biblatex package supports
split bibliographies, multiple bibliographies within one document,
and separate lists of bibliographic shorthands. Bibliographies may
be subdivided into parts (by chapter, by section, etc.) and/or
segmented by topics (by type, by keyword, etc.). The package is
fully localized and can interface with the babel package.

LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2006-2010 Philipp Lehman. Permission is granted to
copy, distribute and/or modify this software under the terms of the
LaTeX Project Public License (LPPL), version 1.3. This package is
author-maintained. This software is provided 'as is', without
warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied, including, but
not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose.

FEEDBACK

Please use the biblatex project page on SourceForge to report bugs
or submit feature requests:

   http://sourceforge.net/projects/biblatex/

There are two trackers on this page, 'Bugs' for bug reports and
'Features' for feature requests:

   http://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?group_id=244752

Select a tracker, then click on "Add new" to submit your report or
request. If you do not want to report a bug or request a feature but
are simply in need of assistance, you might want to consider posting
your question on the comp.text.tex newsgroup. I can not provide any
end-user support by email or via the project page.

REQUIREMENTS

Strictly required:

- e-TeX
- BibTeX
- etoolbox 1.8 or later
- keyval
- ifthen
- url

Strongly recommended:

- Biber or bibtex8
- csquotes 4.4 or later
- babel

etoolbox and csquotes are available from CTAN:

http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/etoolbox/
http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/csquotes/

Biber is available from:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/biblatex-biber/

AUTOMATIC INSTALLATION

TeX Live: Biblatex is included in TeX Live.
          Use the TeX Live package manager to install it.

SEMI-AUTOMATIC INSTALLATION

1. Get the file biblatex-<version>.tds.zip from

   http://sourceforge.net/projects/biblatex/files/

   or download the file

   http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/install/macros/latex/exptl/biblatex.tds.zip

2. Unpack the archive in the root directory of the local TeX
   installation tree, for example

	/usr/local/share/texmf/
   or
	/usr/share/texmf-local/
   or
	C:\Local TeX Files\

3. Update the file hash tables (also known as the file name
   database).
   
   On teTeX and TeX Live systems, run texhash as root ('sudo
   texhash'). On MiKTeX, run 'initexmf --update-fndb' in a command
   window or use the 'Refresh FNDB' button of the MiKTeX Options
   window.

MANUAL INSTALLATION

1. Get the file biblatex-<version>.tar.gz from

   http://sourceforge.net/projects/biblatex/files/

   or download the file

   http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/exptl/biblatex.zip

2. Unpack the archive in a temporary working directory.

3. Copy all files and subdirectories in the 'latex' directory to:

   <texmflocal>/tex/latex/biblatex/

   where <texmflocal> denotes the root of the local TeX installation
   tree, for example

	/usr/local/share/texmf/
   or
	/usr/share/texmf-local/
   or
	C:\Local TeX Files\

4. Copy all files in the 'bibtex/bst' subdirectory to:

   <texmflocal>/bibtex/bst/biblatex/

5. Copy all files in the 'bibtex/bib' subdirectory to:

   <texmflocal>/bibtex/bib/biblatex/

6. If you are using bibtex8, copy all files in the 'bibtex/csf'
   subdirectory to:

   <texmflocal>/bibtex/csf/biblatex/

7. The manual and example files in 'doc' subdirectory go to

   <texmflocal>/doc/latex/biblatex/

8. Update the file hash tables (also known as the file name
   database).

   On teTeX and TeX Live systems, run texhash as root ('sudo
   texhash'). On MiKTeX, run 'initexmf --update-fndb' in a command
   window or use the 'Refresh FNDB' button of the MiKTeX Options
   window.

Note that you may have to create some or all of the above
directories if this is the first package you're installing locally
(as opposed to via a package manager).

POST-INSTALLATION

When using bibtex8, you may need to set/adjust the environmental
variables BIBTEX8_BSTINPUT, BIBTEX8_BIBINPUT, and BIBTEX8_CSFINPUT
for biblatex8 to work properly.

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES

latin1.csf

A codepage and sort definition file for the 8-bit implementation of
BibTeX. This file adds support for ISO 8859-1 (Latin 1). It is a
modified and expanded version of the 88591lat.csf file that ships
with bibtex8. latin1.csf implements a generic sorting order; the
latin1_*.csf files are optimized for specific languages.

latin9.csf

A codepage and sort definition file for the 8-bit implementation of
BibTeX. This file adds support for ISO 8859-15 (Latin 9). latin9.csf
implements a generic sorting order; the latin9_*.csf files are
optimized for specific languages.

winansi.csf

A codepage and sort definition file for the 8-bit implementation of
BibTeX. This file adds support for Microsoft Codepage 1252 (Windows
Ansi). winansi.csf implements a generic sorting order; the
winansi_*.csf files are optimized for specific languages.

bibtoolrsc

A configuration file for bibtool with support for the additional
entry types and fields provided by biblatex. Add the contents of
this file to your existing '.bibtoolrsc' file.

USAGE

Refer to biblatex.pdf for a systematic reference manual and to the
'doc/examples' subdirectory for usage examples.

CHANGES

A list of changes relevant to users of this package is included at
the end of 'biblatex.pdf'. See also the release notes in 'RELEASE'.
